# Table of Contents

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Changed](#changed)
3. [Refactored](#refactored)
4. [Fixed](#fixed)
5. [Improved](#improved)


# Overview

Release `0.4.1` of `imaug` is a fork of the 
[abandoned](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/issues/824) `imgaug` package with support for
Python >= 3.8. Depending on your application, older versions might work, but are untested. The focus was on a drop-in
replacement for `imgaug`, thus the relevant module name remains `imgaug` while the
package name changed to `imaug`. Existing code should work out-of-the-box.

# Changed

## Stricter Shape Handling in Augmentables [#623](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/623)

Array inputs are no longer recommended as `shape` parameter for the classes
`KeypointsOnImage`, `BoundingBoxesOnImage`, `LineStringsOnImage`, and `PolygonsOnImage`.
Providing array inputs will raise a depreciation warning.

## Limit dtype Support in Alpha Blending in Windows [#678](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/678)

Dtype float128 is required for accurate output in `blend_alpha()`, which is only
supported on some platforms.

## Now requires scikit-image >= 0.18

Some tests require scikit-image >= 0.18. Older versions might work for your use case but
remain untested.

## Now requires Python >= 3.8 <3.13

Other versions are not supported by latest GitHub Action images anymore. Therefore
remain untested. Future support of Python >= 3.13 depends on numba Python 3.13 support.

## Now supports OpenCV 4

Package and tests were changed such that OpenCV 4 is supported.

## Changed documentation and license file

The [documentation](https://imaug.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) URL has changed. Support for
this release will come in the next months.

Additionally, the `LICENSE` accounts for the previous work done by
[Alexander Jung](https://github.com/aleju) and the ongoing efforts by the
[imaug](https://github.com/imaug) organization to maintain this package.

## Changed imagecorruptions dependency

The `imagecorruptions` package has introduced changes which broke the determinism of some
functions which is required for passing tests. Additionally it broke support for older
`scikit-image` functions which we want to support at least in the current release.

Thus, a `imagecorruptions` fork `imagecorruptions-imaug` was created as a temporary fix.
In the long term, we would like to drop support for older `scikit-image` versions,
in-source the non-deterministic functions and move back to the original `imagecorruption`
package.


# Refactored

## Refactored `blur_gaussian_()` [#626](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/626)

Cleaned up code and small performance improvement.

## Refactored `Affine` [#639](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/639)

Improved readbility of `Affine` and merged matrix generation of `Affine` and 
`pillike.Affine`. Chnaged shear mechanic in `Affine` as well.

## Deleted different test routines for float128 systems

The test `test_unusual_channel_numbers` in 
`test/augmenters/test_contrast.py` ran different test routines
depending on the float128 support of the system.

Yet, the main reason for the different behavior is the `params.draw_samples` call in `contrast.py:71` which converts a regular python int into a numpy array of int dtype and thus resulted in different floating point rounding errors.

This behavior was not mirrored in the expected test output and thus resulted in different outcomes on systems with different floating point support.


# Fixed

* Fix legacy augmenters (i.e. no `_augment_batch_()`
  implemented) not automatically falling back to
  `_augment_keypoints()` for the augmentation of bounding
  boxes, polygons and line strings. #617 #618
* Fix legacy augmenters (i.e. no `_augment_batch_()`
  implemented) not automatically falling back to
  `_augment_keypoints()` for the augmentation of bounding
  boxes, polygons and line strings. #617 #618
* Fixed `change_color_temperatures_()` crashing on batches
  that did not contain exactly `1` or `3` images. #646 #650
* Fixed an `skimage` deprecation warning in `Superpixels`. #672
* A problem was fixed that led to `blend_alpha()`
  always producing assertion errors if the dtype
  `float128` was not available on the given
  system. #678
* Fixed an error on MacOS in python 3.7 that could appear
  when using multicore augmentation. The library will now
  use `spawn` mode in that situation. The error can thus
  still appear when using a custom multiprocessing
  implementation. It is recommended to use python 3.8 on
  Mac. #673
* A problem was fixed that led to `pad()` always crashing
  if the dtype `float128` was not available on the given
  system. #678
* Fixed a `permission denied` error when calling
  `StochasticParameter.draw_distribution_graph()` in
  Windows. #678
* Fixed `Affine` casting float cvals to int, even when
  the image had a float dtype, making it impossible to
  properly use cvals for images with value
  range `[0.0, 1.0]`. #669 #680
* Fixed a deprecation warning in `Affine` that would
  be caused when providing boolean images and
  `order != 0`. #685
* Fixed depreciation warning of `np.bool` by replacing with
  `bool` as recommended for `numpy >= 1.20`. #832
* Fixed depreciation of `np.complex` by replacing with
  `np.complex128` as recommended for NumPy >= 1.20. # 840
* Fixed depreciated use of `np.sctypes` as required for
  NumPy >= 2.0. #856
* Fixed issue with depreciated `cval` use in `imgaug.pool`.
* Fixed too strict test condition for 
  `_test_image_cbaoi_alignment` for unluck seeds.
* Fixed zero-sized array passing to OpenCV in 
  `_invert_uint8_subtract_`.
* Fixed cval test for `_augment_images_by_sampled` for 
  `scikit-image` > 0.19.
* Fixed dtype conversions in `_warp_affine_arr_skimage` to
  account for changed behavior of `transform.warp`
  in scikit-image >= 0.19.
* Fixed NumPy 1.26 support in `test/test_random.py`.
* Fixed multicore support in ``random.seed` by enforcing
  int seed dtypes.
* Fixed `_add_scalar_to_uint8_` on Windows caused by
  dtype-specific behavior of `cv2.add`.
* Fixed `test_alpha_is_080` which relyed on inconsistent
  behavior in scikit-image < 0.18.


# Improved

## Improve Performance of `Add` [#608](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/608)

This patch improves the performance of
`imgaug.arithmetic.add_scalar()`
and the corresponding augmenter `Add` for `uint8` inputs.
The expected performance improvement is 1.5x to 6x.
(More for image arrays with higher widths/heights than
smaller ones. More for more channels. More for a single
scalar added as opposed to channelwise values.)

Add functions:
* `imgaug.augmenters.arithmetic.add_scalar_()`.

## Improve Performance of Alpha-Blending [#610](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/610)

This patch reworks `imgaug.augmenters.blend.blend_alpha()` to
improve its performance. In the case of a scalar constant alpha
value and both image inputs (foreground, background) being
`uint8`, the improved method is roughly 10x faster. In the case
of one constant alpha value per channel, the expected speedup
is around 2x to 7x (more for larger images). In the case of
`(H,W,[C])` alpha masks, the expected speedup is around 1.3x
to 2.0x (`(H,W)` masks are faster for larger images,
`(H,W,C)` the other way round).

Add functions:
* `imgaug.augmenters.blend.blend_alpha_()`

## Improve Performance of Elementwise Addition [#612](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/612)

This patch improves the performance of
`imgaug.augmenters.arithmetic.add_elementwise()` for `uint8`
images. The performance increase is expected to be between
roughly 1.5x and 5x (more for very dense `value` matrices,
i.e. for channelwise addition). This change affects
`AddElementwise`, `AdditiveGaussianNoise`,
`AdditiveLaplaceNoise` and `AdditivePoissonNoise`.

## Improve Performance of `multiply_scalar()` [#614](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/614)

This patch improves the performance of
`imgaug.augmenters.arithmetic.multiply_scalar()` for
`uint8` inputs. The function is now between 1.2x and 7x
faster (more for smaller images and channelwise
multipliers). This change affects `Multiply`.

Add functions:
* `imgaug.augmenters.arithmetic.multiply_scalar_()`.

## Improve Performance of Elementwise Multiplication [#615](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/615)

This patch improves the performance of
`imgaug.augmenters.arithmetic.multiply_elementwise()`. The
performance improvement is roughly between 1.5x and 10x.
The effect is stronger for smaller images and denser
matrices of multipliers (i.e. `(H,W,C)` instead of `(H,W)`).
This change affects `MultiplyElementwise`.

Add functions:
* `imgaug.augmenters.arithmetic.multiply_elementwise_()`.

## Vectorize `CropAndPad` [#619](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/618)

This patch vectorizes parts of `CropAndPad`, especially the
sampling process, leading to an improved performance for large
batches.

Previously, cropping an image below a height and/or width of
`1` would be prevented by `CropAndPad` *and* a warning was
raised if it was tried. That warning was now removed, but
height/width of at least `1` is still ensured.

## Improved Performance of Pooling Operations [#622](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/622)

This patch improves the performance of pooling operations.

For `uint8` arrays, `max_pool()` and `min_pool()` are now
between 3x and 8x faster. The improvements are more
significant for larger images and smaller kernel sizes.
In-place versions of `max_pool()` and `min_pool()` are also
added. Both `MaxPooling` and `MinPooling` now use these
functions.

The performance of `avg_pool()` for `uint8` is improved by
roughly 4x to 15x. (More for larger images and smaller
kernel sizes.)

The performance of `median_pool()` for `uint8` images is
improved by roughly 1.7x to 7x, if the kernel size is 3
or 5 or if the kernel size is 7, 9, 11, 13 and the image
size is 32x32 or less. In both cases the kernel also has to be
symmetric.
In the case of a kernel size of 3, the performance improvement
is most significant for larger images. In the case of 5, it
is fairly even over all kernel sizes. In the case of 7 or higher,
it is more significant for smaller images.

Add functions:
* `imgaug.imgaug.min_pool_()`.
* `imgaug.imgaug.max_pool_()`.

## Improved Average Bluring [#625](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/625)

This patch adds `imgaug.augmenters.blur.blur_avg_()`,
which applies an averaging blur kernel to images. The method
is slightly faster for single image inputs (factor of 1.01x to
1.1x, more for medium-sized images around `128x128`) than
the one used in `AverageBlur`. The performance of `AverageBlur`
however is likely not changed significantly due to input
validation now being done per image instead of per batch.

Add functions:
* `imgaug.augmenters.blur.blur_avg_()`

## Improved Performance of `ElasticTransformation` [#624](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/624)

This patch applies various performance-related changes to
`ElasticTransformation`. These cover: (a) the re-use of
generated random samples for multiple images in the same
batch (with some adjustments so that they are not identical),
(b) the caching of generated and re-useable arrays,
(c) a performance-optimized smoothing method for the
underlying displacement maps and (d) the use of nearest
neighbour interpolation (`order=0`) instead of cubic
interpolation (`order=3`) as the new default parameter
for `order`.

These changes lead to a speedup of about 3x to 4x (more
for larger images) at a slight loss of visual
quality (mainly from `order=0`) and variety (due to the
re-use of random samples within each batch).
The new smoothing method leads to slightly stronger
displacements for larger `sigma` values.

## Improved Convolution Filters [#632](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/632)

This patch reworks the backend of all convolutional
filters. It extracts the convolution logic out of
`Convolve` and moves it into the new function
`imgaug.augmenters.convolutional.convolve_()` (with
non-in-place version `convolve()`).

The logic is also reworked so that fewer convolution
function calls and more in-place modification is
used. This should lead to an improved performance.

These changes also affect `Sharpen`, `Emboss`,
`EdgeDetect`, `DirectedEdgeDetect` and `MotionBlur`.

Add functions:
* `imgaug.augmenters.convolutional.convolve_()`
* `imgaug.augmenters.convolutional.convolve()`

## Improved Performance of `invert_()` [#631](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/631)

This patch improves the performance of
`imgaug.augmenters.arithmetic.invert_()` for `uint8`
images. The update is expected to improve the
performance by a factor of 4.5x to 5.3x (more for
smaller images) if no threshold is provided and by
1.5x to 2.7x (more for smaller images) if a threshold
is provided.

In both cases these improvements are only realised
if either no custom minimum and maximum for the
value range is provided or only a custom maximum
is provided. (This is expected to be the case for most
users.)

These improvements also affect `Invert` and `Solarize`.

## Added Automatic Prefetching of Random Number Samples [#634](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/634)

This patch adds automatic prefetching of random samples,
which performs a single large random sampling call instead
of many smaller ones. This seems to improve the
performance of most augmenters by 5% to 40% for longer
augmentation sessions (50+ consecutive batches of 128
examples each). A few augmenters seem to have gotten
slightly slower, though these might be measuring errors.

The prefetching is done by adding a new parameter,
`imgaug.parameters.AutoPrefetcher`, which prefetches
samples from a child parameter.

The change is expected to have for most augmenters a
slight negative performance impact if the augmenters
are used only once and not for multiple batches. For a
few augmenters there might be sizeable negative
peformance impact (due to prefetching falsely being
performed). The negative impact can be avoided in
these cases by wrapping the augmentation calls in
`with imgaug.parameters.no_prefetching(): ...`.

This patch also adds the property `prefetchable` to
`StochasticParameter`, which defaults to `False` and
determines whether the parameter's outputs may be
prefetched.

It further adds to
`handle_continuous_param()`, `handle_discrete_param()`.
`handle_categorical_string_param()`,
`handle_discrete_kernel_size_param()` and
`handle_probability_param()` in `imgaug.parameters` the
new argument `prefetch`. If set to `True` (the default),
these functions may now partially or fully wrap their
results in `AutoPrefetcher`.

Add functions:
* `imgaug.random.RNG.create_if_not_rng_()`
* `imgaug.parameters.toggle_prefetching()`
* `imgaug.testutils.is_parameter_instance()`
* `imgaug.testutils.remove_prefetching()`

Add properties:
* `imgaug.parameters.StochasticParameter.prefetchable`

Add classes:
* `imgaug.parameters.toggled_prefetching()` (context)
* `imgaug.parameters.no_prefetching()` (context)
* `imgaug.parameters.AutoPrefetcher`

## Improved Performance of Segment Replacement [#640](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/640) [#684](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/684)

This patch improves the performance of segment
replacement (by average colors within the segments),
used in `Superpixels` and `segment_voronoi()`.
The new method is in some cases (especially small
images) up to 100x faster now. For 224x224 images
the speed improvement is around 1.4x to 10x,
depending on how many segments have to be replaced.

This change is expected to have a moderate positive
impact on `Superpixels` and `segment_voronoi()` (i.e.
`Voronoi`).

Added functions:
* `imgaug.augmenters.segmentation.replace_segments_`

Added classes:
* `imgaug.testutils.temporary_constants` (context)

## Improve Performance of `FrequencyNoise` [#651](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/651)

This patch improves the performance of
`imgaug.parameters.FrequencyNoise`, which is used in some
weather augmenters. The parameter now samples `HxW` arrays
about 1.3x to 1.5x faster (more improvement for larger
images).

## Improved Performance of dtype checks [#663](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/663)

This patch improves the performance of dtype checks
throughout the library. The new method verifies input
arrays around 10x to 100x faster than the previous one.

Add functions:
* `imgaug.dtypes.gate_dtypes_strs()`
* `imgaug.dtypes.allow_only_uint8()`

Add decorators:
* `imgaug.testutils.ensure_deprecation_warning`

Deprecate functions:
* `imgaug.dtypes.gate_dtypes()`

## Improved CI/CD Testing [#670](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/670) [#678](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/678)

This patch improves the CI/CD environment by adding
github actions. The library is now automatically tested
in Ubuntu with python ~~2.7, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7 and~~ 3.8,
3.9, 3.10, 3.11, and 3.12,
as well as MacOS and Windows with the same python
versions ~~(except for 2.7 in Windows)~~.
Previously, only Ubuntu with python <=3.7 was
automatically tested in the CI/CD chain.

Additionally, the CI/CD pipeline now also generates
wheel files (sdist, bdist) for every patch merged
into master.

## Removed Requirement of float128 Support from Tests [#677](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/677)

This patch modifies all tests so that they can be run on
systems that do not support the dtype `float128`
, suchas Windows systems with certain CPU models.

## Improved Performance of Glass Blur [#683](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/683) [#684](https://github.com/aleju/imgaug/pull/684)

This patch improves the performance of
`imgaug.augmenters.imgcorruptplike.apply_glass_blur()`
and the corresponding augmenter in python 3.6+.
The improvement is around 14x to 45x, depending on
the image size (larger images have more speedup).

Added dependencies:
* `numba` (requires python 3.6+)


















